# AI Fashion Designer

## Abstract
Fashion is an interesting domain which requires a lot of creativity. We present a work of Artificial Intelligence (AI) fashion designer, which generates innovative, original and unconventional fashion patterns and transfers them onto desired accessories. Our framework first uses the deep convolutional generative adversarial network (DCGAN) which is trained to learn the design of fashion patterns. We further apply the pattern to the target item with the Mask R-CNN to achieve the virtual try-on task and this network is trained to learn object instance segmentation. Experiments demonstrate its promise in both fashion pattern design and the virtual try-on tasks in image and real-time videos using state-of-the-art frameworks. We hope our elegant and effective machine-learning pipeline will serve as a solid baseline for future fashion design product in industry.  Demo is available at [YouTube](https://youtu.be/5h-e8PFMUtg)

## Problem Definition and Big Dream
On Dec 13 2018, Andrew Ng published "AI Transformation Playbook" providing a roadmap for companies to transform into a great AI company at [Landing AI](https://landing.ai/ai-transformation-playbook/?utm_source=CourseraMailingList&utm_medium=DLSMailingList&utm_campaign=Playbook). After taking the deep learning skills, all kinds of companies would successfully move from single projects toward a company-wide AI Transformation. The goal of our project is that we practice the knowledge and methodology learned in this course and start to think how to apply deep learning skills into practical problems.

Pursuing fashion and beauty trends is highly demanded in a developed society. Often times we select well-designed accessories from various retail stores, but sometimes you might think the choices are not rich or the price is too high; people often complain that the items they purchased on EBay or Taobao (a Chinese online shopping website) do not actually fit them. Thus, we started to think that we are capable of contributing to the solution for these problems by applying AI techniques. Our proposed solutions include (1) the use of generative model to design new fashion patterns that will make design samples plentiful and decrease the labour cost of designers; (2) achieving virtual try-on function to usher online shoppers for a better shopping experience. 

Data is a key asset for AI systems. When we started to collect the training dataset of fashion patterns, we found out how hard it is to collect sufficient data, because design companies do not provide public design patterns. This has lead to a third objective for the project, or so-called a big dream: our proposed machine learning pipeline can be used by fashion industry in the future and then this industry can potentially be transformed by AI skills; as a result, leading fashion design companies such as Alexander McQueen, Armani, Burberry and Gucci to host an open-source library of fashion data assets for AI fashion designers, which in turn will help them acquire more customers and fashion-related data. This positive feedback loop is essential and beneficial for the whole community in the AI era.

## Stage I: Pattern Generation
In Stage I, DCGAN was used with the idea that generator creates authentic fashion patterns and the discriminator tries to justify whether generated patterns are real or not. 

## Stage II: Virtual try-on
In this stage, we use Mask R-CNN to efficiently detect objects, while simultaneously applying the high-quality generated fashion pattern for each instance, achieving the virtual try-on task. FAIR officially announced the source code on Python 3, Keras, and TensorFlow, as well as Caffe 2-based open-source object detection platform Detection. 

